Basic Broadband Concepts
	1 byte = 8 bits, 1 B = 8 b
		the speed of an internet connection is represented in bits. the size
		of a file is represented in bytes

	Synchronous vs Asynchronous: a synchronous internet connection allows you to
	to have the same download and upload speeds (ex T1). Asynchronous has different 
	download and upload speeds. (ex cable, satelite, )
	
	Latency: is not speed, speed is how fast the data can get to your computer.
	latency is the time between when you send a command to something like a web
	server, and when it gets executed.
		Latency is measured in milliseconds ( > 20 ms is good)
		
		having a low latency is important for real time communication.

	Classes of service
		Business: ISP's like these more. they also get better gurrantees, and
		support.

		Residential: not as good as business.

	IP addresses:
		static IP
			this is the address that other computers use to get to your network.
			it always stays the same.

			static IP addresses usually have less problems.

		dynamic IP
			means you IP address changes fairly often

			problems: Your IP changes, and a lot of spam filters will filter
			out your IP address if it a dynamic address.


	Ports and Services
		When you browse the internet, you use port 80
		
		when you send an email, you use the SMT port.

		Your ISP may block certain ports! most residential services will block
		the port used for websites.

	
	SLA's "Service Level Agreements"
		what you and your service provider absolutly agree on what you will get.
		
		without this you will not always get the advertised speeds all the time.
		
		these are a lot more expensive (ex, 10x the cost of a normal connection)
	
	
T1
	Allow for 1.5 MB upload and download speeds. 
	
	You do get an SLA when you get them.
	
	They can go to places that cable, DSL etc can't go.
	
	Their kinda good, but they are old. they are also very expensive. (starts
	at $300)
	
	can be used for both voice and data, it consists of 24, 64 bit channels.
	each one can be either data or one phone line.

	You can also get "Fractional T1" connections which only gives you a few of
	the channels, which is slower, but also cheaper.

	
Carrier Ethernet
	Another type of business class service that comes with a SLA

	Unlike T1, you have a can have a whole range of speeds, either much faster
	or even slower than T1

	can be expensive ($600 per month)


Point to Point Wireless
	The company has a tower that sends a signal to an antenna on your building.
	
	The latency on this isn't that bad.

	This isn't Wireless, it can't be moved, it is directional.

	can be expensive, but it can also be very fast. (1 GB/s, 3,000 per month)

	
Wireless
	Many different types eg. WiMax, 3G, 4G etc

	It is NOT point to point, so you can get internet almost anywhere.

	Speeds are very different, depending on who you get it from and what type
	you get etc.

	The big companies that provide this stuff are pushing to run entire networks
	off of this.

	Make sure you know your plan, because they may say that you can only use it
	for one computer.

	They also limit the amount of data your allowed to transfer per month


DSL 
	"Digital Subscriber Line", is offered by telephone companies

	Is Asynchronous. You can get up to 12 MB/s down.

	If you have a telephone line from another company, you can't have a DSL, 
	so you have to have a telephone line and a DSL line from the same line.

	The DSL can only be so far away from the central office, which is the point
	where all the telephone lines meet up. 

	The nice thing about this is that you have a dedicated line to the central
	office, which means you don't share your bandwidth with other people like 
	in cable.

	Not good for running websites.


Cable
	The way this works is that the cabel that comes to your house for your TV
	is split and goes to a modem in your house.
	
	DOCIS 3.0 is a new technology that allows for very fast upload / download 
	speeds (152 Mb/s up, 108 Mb/s down)

	The problem with this is that you share that bandwidth, so if there are a	
	lot of people on the internet at once, the bandwidth of the trunk line (the
	line where all the line come together) can get all used up. 
	
	Does not come with SLA


FIOS
	"Fiber Optic Internet Service" 

	The speeds of this are insane (potentially 1Gb/s)

	The only company really pushing this is verizon.

	The only problem with this is that it requires a lot of work and is very 
	expensive to install


Satellite
	Nice part about this is that you can get an internet connection just about
	anywhere

	Starts at $100 per month for 1.5 Mb/s to 5 M/s

	The latency with this is absolutely horrible. There is no chance of voice
	over IP or real time communication.


