Basic Parts of the Internet
	The internet cloud: anything that is on the internet, the internet is very
	complicated. 
	
	Modem: the first the device that connects you to the internet

	Router: The device underneath the modem. 
	
	Firewall: Protection for the network, it is underneath the router. 

	Switch: A splitter of the internet signal, allows devices to connect to each
	other or to the internet.

	Wireless access point: connected to the switch. allows wireless devices to
	connect to the internet.


Definitions
	Physical/Logical: these two things are not the same thing. 
		Physical: A computer can phyisically be connected to a switch, which 
		can be physically connected to a router etc

		Logical: You can have 20 computers plugged into a switch, but you can 
		split the computers into two networks logically. even though the 
		computers are physically connected together, they cannot talk.

	Speed: data is sized by two different types of measurement. You can have
	bits and bytes. Kb, kilo bit, KB kilo bye. 1 byte = 8 bits
		When you buy internet service, they show their speeds in bits. so if you
		get a speed of 12 Mb, then your speed is also 1.5 MB


The Modem
	The modem takes the protocal used to talk to the internet into data that
	your computer can use and vice versa. Basically the connection betweeen
	your network and the internet.


Types of Connections
	T1
		Very expensive
		Has a longer range than other connections
		uses ADTRAN modem
		fast, but not by todays standards (1.5 MB/s)

	DSL - "Digital Subscriber Line"
		Provided by telephone lines
		generally very good.
		pretty cheap, 
		maximum speed is about 12 MB/s
		a good pro to this is that you have your own dedicated line, compared to
		 others where you have to share bandwidth
		you can download faster than you can upload.

	Cabel Modem
		Lot more stable than in the past
		Docis 3.0, a new thing introduced by cabel, will allow you to have a
		 download of 100 MB/s and 80 MB/s upload
		unlike DSL, you share the bandwidth with other people.

	Satelite
		Download speed isn't that bad (1.5 MB/s)
		Upload speed is horrible
		good if you live in the middle of nowhere.


The Router
	The router allows you to separate different networks.
	
	If you had a building that had multiple busnesses, you could have one modem
	that splits off two multiple routers, which separates the businesses so the
	businesses are separate.


Firewall
	a device that tries to prevent hackers from getting into your network.

	in the past, the firewall was a physical device that prevented undesired 
	traffic. now they are morce complicated, and they are build into the modem
	or router. 


VPN
	allows people from outside a network to work inside your network.

	works by a "Client server" structure. you have a server which has a list of
	usernames and passwords of all the people that are allowed on the network.
	this is called a VPN Endpoint. the computer that wants access to the network
	will usually have a client installed to connect them to the server.


The Switch
	Hubs
		is obselete. they were obselete 10 years ago.
		
		to find out if it is a hub or a switch just look at the to.

		the hub will just split the network evenly. kind of like a cable 
		splitter

	Switch
		they have a little bit of intelligence
		
		they dynamically allocate the amount of connection to all the connected
		computers.
	
	Managed v Unmanaged
		unmanaged has a little bit of knowledge, but no configuration 
		whatsoever
		
		a managed switch allows you to program it to do things that are useful 
		when you have a lot of devices connected to the network.


Wireless Access Point
	A device that allows wireless computers and devices to connect to the
	network.

	sometimes they have antennes, but now always

	different standards
		802.11 A: a standard that didn't work, isn't really supported, and isn't
		compatible with anything

		802.11 B: a standard that came out around 10 years ago, about 11 MB/s

		802.11 G: 58 MB/s, newer, is compatible with B

		802.11 N: allows for a larger area to be covered, is at least 2 times
		faster than G, and allows for real time communication. 


Devices, Clients, Servers
	everything that is on the network is called a networkning device.

	Servers
		a networked device that provides something to the rest of the network.
		can be a file server, print server...

		any operating system can be a server.

	Client
		any device that recieves a service from a server or accesses something
		from another device.


