TCP/IP
	A set of multiplie protocols


IP
	IP is the protocol within TCP/IP that controls routing of information to 
	different computers and servers on the network. "Connects" the computers 
	together.

	deals with IP addresses, default gateway, subnet masking.

	It allows two computers to find each other on
	the network so they can communicate with each other.
	
	Is a "routable" protocol, which means you can divide networks into multiple
	subnetworks. In non-routable protocals, every computer can talk to each other
	which can cause havok.
	
	OSI model is the model for how network communications happen. IP is on
	layer 3, the network layer.


TCP
	"Transmission Control Protocol" is what allows computers on a network to
	actually talk.

	Windowing is the process by which the client computer sends information
	to the server computer. 
		TCP/IP was originally created for the military, and they needed to
		make sure that all of the data would reach its destination without
		getting all jumbled up, even if large amounts of data were sent.

		To fix this, they sent the data in packets, and the packets were sent
		in groups, each one getting progressively larger.
	
		The way this works is that computer one (A) will send one packet.
		then the second computer (B) will tell A that it recieved that
		packet. Then computer A, seeing that the connection is good will send
	 	2 packets, and computer B will tell computer A that it recieved them,
		and then computer A will send 4 packets (these aren't real numbers,
		their just examples). If computer A sends some packets and computer B 
		does not recieve them, then they will go back to sending one, then 2,
		then 4 untill their is an error. 

	TCP is on OSI layer 4.


IP Address
	IP addresses: Addresses that are used to signifiy a device on a network.
	every device on a TCP/IP netwok
		ex: 10.1.10.1

	Subnet Mask: A way to segment a network logically so that different 
	computers and devices can talk to each other.
		this is usefull if you have like 200 computers on network and you don't
		want them all to be able to communicate with each other.

	Default Gateway: the router for the subnetwork you are on. 
		Your computer is going to look on the local network for the computer / 
		device / server that you are looking for, if it can't find it, it will
		go to the default gate way to look for that computer / device / server
		out on the internet. Basically connect your subnetwork to all the other
		networks

	"Domain Name Server" DNS maps domain names to IP addresses. Whenever you
	plug in a website address, it means nothing to the computer, so the computer
	sends it to a DNS server and the DNS server will tell the computer the IP 
	address for that domain name.

DHCP
	"Dynamic Host Control Protocol" is 

	Static this is NOT DHCP, it is where you sit down and assign the computer
	its IP address, subnet mask, default gateway and dns servers. This can cause
	problems if you accidentaly assign two computers the same IP address because
	one computer will get SOME packets, and another will get SOME other packets.
	
	Dynamic IP addresses mean when the computer connects to the network, it will
	call out to the DHCP server and the DHCP server will give the computer it's
	IP address, subnet mask, default gateway, and list of DNS servers.
	automatically. It also keeps track of all the used IP addresses.
	
	Lease Time is a time limit on how long a computer is allowed to keep an IP
	address. The lease could be any time. Half way through the lease, the 
	computer will try to renew the lease, which the DHCP server will let it.
	If the DHCP server is down, the computer will ask again at the next 50% mark
	
	
